This is one of a multiple IP version 6 troubleshooting videos.
We've been told that Rotto one in this typology cannot ping rotas 3.
So let's verify that he has wrote a one.
So let's ping 2001 face colon colon three pink doesn't succeed.
We get unbreachable messages now show IP ROFFT won't help you in this typology because they are no IP
version 4 addresses configured on the router.
We can see that could give it to 00 is up and the loop back interfaces up.
But what we need to do is use show IP interface brief to see the IP addresses configured on the router
we can use trace route to see how far traffic gets in this example we can see that the trace gets to
2001.
COLGAN one colon colon too which is Rodda to and again we could use Come on such a show IP brought to
view the drawing table I wrote a one has a default route to route to Traffic is getting to router.
But is going no further.
So lets have a look at rodded to ping 2001 face three notice what we told no valid route to the destination.
So what do you think I should type now to verify what's going on.
Should I look at a one so you'd come on such a show IP interface brief to verify a one in this example
the one is up up.
It is.
The interface is up.
So it looks like layer one is up and layer two is up.
Should I use commands such as Shushi to be neighbors to verify that layer 2 is working.
In this example we can see that rodder 3 is connected to router 2.
So that implies that layer two is working show IP route of one to help us because there are no IP version
for rats.
But what about show IPV six ROFFT can you see the problem in the south.
Put
is there romped to the loopback of rotisserie notice there's no route to rodders three in the writing
table show IPV six ROFFT include face only shows us a study grant to a one and a local connection on
gratitude.
So gang show IPV six ROFFT there's no rot and the writing table show IPV six protocol's.
We don't have a writing protocol such as Ripp SPF enabled.
But we do have static Grotz configure it so show run pipe.
Include route we can see a static route to the loop back of Rato 1 and then there's the default route
to Rodda 3.
Notice the next top is 2001 colon to Colon colon to.
So can we.
Ping 2001 colon to Colon colon to notice we told that there's no ROFFT in the writing table.
In other words we don't have a route to a router that is directly connected to us.
Can we ping ourselves.
So 2001 colon to Colon colon one we told that we don't have a route to local IP address that doesn't
look right.
So show IP V-6 interface brief.
What's the problem in the south.
Put If you need to pause the video.
But what's the problem notice here.
Gigabit.
0 1 has an IP address configured of two thousand and one coal on one colon to Colon colon one when in
actual fact it should be 2001 to 1.
There's an extra one in the network.
So show run interface gigabit.
0 1.
Notice the extra one in the network address.
So let's fix that so no PV 6 address PV 6 address 2001 to Colon colon one slash 64 can be paying 2001
colon to Colon colon too.
Now we can ping Rodda 3.
What about the loopback of rotisserie.
We can ping the loopback rodded 3 so that looks promising.
What about from Rotto one paying the loopback of Rodda 3.
So yes that looks good.
We can ping the loopback of registry and we can paying the physical interface of router 3.
Be careful with your IP addresses.
Look at your running tables look at the configuration of your IP addresses to verify that it's correct.
Previously we didn't have the static graphed in the writing table but now we do
so.
Previously the static route was missing.
We had a static route to the Lupica wrote a one but no static route to the loopback of roaded 3.
Now we can get to the loopback of router 3 because of this default prompt.
I hope you enjoyed this video if it's been a benefit to you please and like it and please subscribe
to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.